Welcome back!
Well let's take just five minutes to quickly make
this website a little bit prettier just to show you
how easy it is to customize a website.
Once you have the layout done a recommended step
that I've mentioned multiple times when you build a
web site figure out your
layout make it responsive.
And once that's done
the rest is kind of fun.
You just add nice CSS properties
some images to just prettify.
So in our case I want to show you a website
called well noshit.xyz and it's going to really
help you out because it gives you free design resources
to use and they have font's illustrations mockups
UI kits everything for free that
you can use on your website.
In our case we can use
something like undraw over here.
That gives us a ton of MIT
illustrated or licensed illustrations.
So if I go to browse now we see that we have a ton of
images that we can use so in my case I've downloaded
one of these images and we're
going to use it as our cover photo.
So let's go back to our project and in my cover photo
over here instead of just having cover with exclamation
marks I'll just have an image tag that will have a
class of cover a CSS property that we're going to
or CSS class that will use and is going to link to the
image that I just downloaded in my images folder.
Again the should already be in your
starter file that I gave to you.
So if you're looking at a folder you'll see that
we have an image folder and from there we're going
to grab the undraw.jpg
If I save this and refresh. Make sure I finish
that half with an ending bracket and I refresh.
And this is a png.
Let's refresh.
That's a lot better.
But oh boy! That's a big image!
We can easily fix this by going to our style going
to our cover and using the cover class that we've
added to the image to just say
that we want the width to be.
Well we can say 100 percent
that but that might be too big.
I don't like it that big.
Let's do '30em' If I
refresh or 'rem' refresh.
That's better.
But we want to get rid of
this red background now.
Let's have everything in white.
I should going to go up to our zone and we
can just actually remove the red from here.
If I refresh.
Much better, that looks a lot better.
All right.
So as we see the image sizes and growing which is
good but it looks nice and pretty as the cover photo.
Another thing that I noticed is that when I scroll
down I want the header tab to be sticky that is to
scroll with me and that's another common pattern
that we'll see that's fairly easy to do.
We can just give the nav element a
sticky class and this sticky class
can say that we'll have a position of
fixed and a top of 0 that is start of top.
And if I refresh this it will actually because
of the position fixed although it works now.
It messed up our width.
So we want to make sure that
the width is always 100 percent.
So all we would do is at the end say with 100 percent
again these three properties together is a common
pattern that you'll see to make to make navigation
sticky so that now when I scroll down look at that
our navigation is nice and sticky.
Let's make the green navigation bar blue.
So I'll turn this into blue all
right that looks a lot better.
What else we can change our font let's say to something
prettier font family let's just say Arial. If I fresh.
All right.
That looks a little bit cleaner.
What else can we do here?
Well just to finish it off maybe we want to do
something different when we hover over the zone.
Let's say that with the boxes when we hover
over them I can just copy and paste this.
Let's make them tilt a little bit.
So I'll say box and instead of shadow
or box-shadow we'll say transform
and we'll just say that we want
to rotate say negative 7 degrees
If I save and refresh.
Look at that.
We have some grid systems that when we
hover over them they rotate 7 degrees.
I mean I want to demonstrate to you how fast we can
convert a website to start looking good by no means
is this perfect but by just changing a few properties
we've now gone from this to our final view and
you can imagine how within a day of improving this
website making this a little bit prettier. Maybe
you really like this website cards that they have
here so you can just inspect the element and perhaps
just copy their CSS styles.
But there's a lot of flexibility here.
The important point though is the fact that you start
with your layout using flexbox and CSS grid
and then it's really up to you and your
creativity to design beautiful websites.
I hope that was fun.
I definitely had a lot of fun playing with CSS grid
and flexbox and I'll see you in the next video.